=head1 NAME

Web::Encoding::Normalization - Unicode normalization forms

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Encoding::Normalization;
  warn to_nfc $input;
  warn to_nfd $input;
  warn to_nfkc $input;
  warn to_nfkd $input;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Encoding::Normalization> module exports functions for
applying Unicode normalization operations.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

The following functions are available.  They are exported by default:

=over 4

=item $string = to_nfc $string

Apply the NFC (Normalization Form C) operation to the input and return
the result.

=item $string = to_nfd $string

Apply the NFD (Normalization Form D) operation to the input and return
the result.

=item $string = to_nfkc $string

Apply the NFKC (Normalization Form KC) operation to the input and
return the result.

=item $string = to_nfkd $string

Apply the NFKD (Normalization Form KD) operation to the input and
return the result.

=item $boolean = is_nfc $string

Returns whether the argument is a NFC-normalized string or not.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

The Unicode Standard.

UAX #15: Unicode Normalization Forms
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr15/>.

This module supports the latest version of the Unicode Standard at the
time of the build of the module files.  You should always use the
latest version of the module.  See
<https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-encodings> to get up-to-date
version of the module.

=head1 DEPENDENCY

The module requires Perl 5.8 or later.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The module derived from L<Unicode::Normalize>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright(C) 2001-2012, SADAHIRO Tomoyuki. Japan. All rights reserved.

Copyright 2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
